hey everybody welcome to another episode
of startup Theory I am your host Tom
Bilu you can follow me across all the
socials atom billu and today I am
answering your question about what the
best options are for building a minimum
viable product for an app um and the
answer to that question is really
getting one if you're not a coder to get
a coder you're going to need somebody
that's going to be able to help you get
that out you want to make a list of what
the features are that you think are
absolutely the most critical to have and
then you want to break them down in
terms of ease of creating because your
goal on a minimum viable product is to
get something into the hands of the
marketplace for as little money and time
as humanly possible so there's going to
be some stuff in the app that you're
going to want to add desperately that
you're going to think are really going
to push the app over the edge but the
important thing here is getting to
Market as quickly as possible because
inevitably whatever you think the market
is going to um do with your product or
how they're going to respond to it or
what need it is that you're meeting it's
going to be slightly different than the
way that the market actually responds
and you're going to want to be prepared
to be nimble to change and adjust things
in order to address whatever it is that
the market is telling you so making sure
that you break down that architecture
that it starts with um you know very
simple things are we going for Android
are we going for iOS and there are B big
differences you know as of the time of
this recording there's very big
differences so the Android market is
much larger but people are much less
willing to pay for their app um the iOS
Market is smaller but people are much
more willing to pay so depending on who
you're trying to Target also iPhone
users tend to be a little bit more
upscale they tend to be living on the
coasts um certainly that's true here in
the US and um Android users the more
that you go inward uh the more that
you're going to find them so and then
age groups and demographics like all of
that is going to be very important to
make sure that you break down make sure
that you choose one or the other and I
think choosing one or the other to begin
with is is a very smart idea because
you're going to have limited resources
so trying to apply them to every feature
you can think of across multiple devices
is just not the way so pick um a very
small subset of features that you
believe really execute against your
product offering the way that you're
going to deliver value again rank them
in order of easiest to um Implement as
well as cross referencing highest impact
so when you find something that has uh
it's very easy to implement and has a
high impact on the product those are
going to be the things you want to do
first and so prioritizing that in that
order and only getting to the hard low
impact stuff when you've already got
something that's out in the market it's
already delivering value you're already
getting feedback I mean there are things
that are you know products that have bid
out on the market 5 10 years that still
don't have some relatively obvious
features because they know that it's
either hard to implement or it's low
impact so being really ruthless about
that not getting um not falling in love
with your ideas and and really um doing
something because it's cool in fact
that's important to say designing
something because you think it's cool
will be the kiss of death so don't
design it because it's cool design it
because you know that there is a market
need for that so build that architecture
out look at that be relentless steer
everything by that judge by Dollar spent
time to execute get it in people's hands
even when it's ugly even when it's
painful get feedback pivot adjust
re-release and tell it's something that
people will actually pay for because at
the end of the day profitability is the
only thing that matters so being cool is
the fastest way to go out of business so
you want to make sure that you're doing
something that people that really meets
a need and people are willing to pay for
it so that's it that is your path to
minimum viable product if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe I'm doing
this all the time and until next time my
friends be Legend D take
care